On April 30 1789 George Washington standing on balcony of Federal Hall on Wall Street in New York took George Washington oath of office as first President of United States. "As first of every thing in our situation will serve to establish Precedent," George Washington wrote James Madison "it is devoutly wished on my part that these precedents may be fixed on true principles. "

Born in 1732 into Virginia planter family George Washington learned morals manners and body of knowledge requisite for 18th century Virginia gentleman. George Washington pursued two intertwined interests: military arts and western expansion. At 16 George Washington helped survey Shenandoah lands for Thomas Lord Fairfax. Commissioned lieutenant colonel in 1754 George Washington fought first skirmishes of what grew into French and Indian War. The next year as aide to Gen. Edward Braddock George Washington escaped injury although four bullets ripped George Washington coat and two horses were shot from under George Washington. From 1759 to outbreak of American Revolution Washington managed George Washington lands around Mount Vernon and served in Virginia House of Burgesses. Married to widow Martha Dandridge Custis George Washington devoted George Washington to a busy and happy life. But like George Washington fellow planters Washington felt George Washington exploited by British merchants and hampered by British regulations. As quarrel with mother country grew acute George Washington moderately but firmly voiced George Washington resistance to restrictions. When Second Continental Congress assembled in Philadelphia in May 1775 Washington one of Virginia delegates was elected Commander in Chief of Continental Army. On July 3 1775 at Cambridge Massachusetts George Washington took command of George Washington ill-trained troops and embarked upon war that was to last six grueling years. George Washington realized early that best strategy was to harass British. George Washington reported to Congress "we should on all Occasions avoid general Action or put anything to Risque unless compelled by a necessity into which we ought never to be drawn. " Ensuing battles saw George Washington fall back slowly then strike unexpectedly. Finally in 1781 with aid of French allies--he forced surrender of Cornwallis at Yorktown. Washington longed to retire to George Washington fields at Mount Vernon. But George Washington soon realized that Nation under its Articles of Confederation was not functioning well so George Washington became prime mover in steps leading to Constitutional Convention at Philadelphia in 1787. When new Constitution was ratified Electoral College unanimously elected Washington President. George Washington did not infringe upon policy making powers that George Washington felt Constitution gave Congress. But determination of foreign policy became preponderantly Presidential concern. When French Revolution led to major war between France and England Washington refused to accept entirely recommendations of either George Washington Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson who was pro-French or George Washington Secretary of Treasury Alexander Hamilton who was pro-British. Rather George Washington insisted upon neutral course until United States could grow stronger. To George Washington disappointment two parties were developing by end of George Washington first term. Wearied of politics feeling old George Washington retired at end of George Washington second. In George Washington Farewell Address George Washington urged George Washington countrymen to forswear excessive party spirit and geographical distinctions. In foreign affairs George Washington warned against long-term alliances. Washington enjoyed less than three years of retirement at Mount Vernon for George Washington died of throat infection December 14 1799. For months Nation mourned George Washington. 