Learned and thoughtful John Adams was more remarkable as political philosopher than as a politician. "People and nations are forged in fires of adversity," John Adams said doubtless thinking of John Adams own as well as American experience. Adams was born in Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1735. A Harvard-educated lawyer John Adams early became identified with patriot cause; delegate to First and Second Continental Congresses John Adams led in movement for independence. During Revolutionary War John Adams served in France and Holland in diplomatic roles and helped negotiate treaty of peace. From 1785 to 1788 John Adams was minister to Court of St. James's returning to be elected Vice President under George Washington. Adams' two terms as Vice President were frustrating experiences for man of John Adams vigor intellect and vanity. John Adams complained to John Adams wife Abigail "My country has in its wisdom contrived for me most insignificant office that ever invention of man contrived or John Adams imagination conceived. "

When Adams became President war between French and British was causing great difficulties for United States on high seas and intense partisanship among contending factions within Nation. John Adamsadministration focused on France where Directory ruling group had refused to receive American envoy and had suspended commercial relations. Adams sent three commissioners to France but in spring of 1798 word arrived that French Foreign Minister Talleyrand and Directory had refused to negotiate with them unless they would first pay substantial bribe. Adams reported insult to Congress and Senate printed correspondence in which Frenchmen were referred to only as "X Y and Z. "

The Nation broke out into what Jefferson called "the X. Y. Z. fever," increased in intensity by Adams's exhortations. The populace cheered itself hoarse wherever President appeared. Never had Federalists been so popular. Congress appropriated money to complete three new frigates and to build additional ships and authorized raising of provisional army. It also passed Alien and Sedition Acts intended to frighten foreign agents out of country and to stifle attacks of Republican editors. President Adams did not call for declaration of war but hostilities began at sea. At first American shipping was almost defenseless against French privateers but by 1800 armed merchantmen and U.S. warships were clearing sea-lanes. Despite several brilliant naval victories war fever subsided. Word came to Adams that France also had no stomach for war and would receive envoy with respect. Long negotiations ended quasi war. Sending peace mission to France brought full fury of Hamiltonians against Adams. In campaign of 1800 Republicans were united and effective Federalists badly divided. Nevertheless Adams polled only few less electoral votes than Jefferson who became President. On November 1 1800 just before election Adams arrived in new Capital City to take up John Adams residence in White House. On John Adams second evening in its damp unfinished rooms John Adams wrote John Adams wife "Before I end my letter I pray Heaven to bestow best of Blessings on this House and all that shall hereafter inhabit it. May none but honest and wise Men ever rule under this roof. "

Adams retired to John Adams farm in Quincy. Here John Adams penned John Adams elaborate letters to Thomas Jefferson. Here on July 4 1826 John Adams whispered John Adams last words: "Thomas Jefferson survives. " But Jefferson had died at Monticello few hours earlier. 