In thick of party conflict in 1800 Thomas Jefferson wrote in private letter "I have sworn upon altar of God eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over mind of man. "

This powerful advocate of liberty was born in 1743 in Albemarle County Virginia inheriting from Thomas Jefferson father planter and surveyor some 5,000 acres of land and from Thomas Jefferson mother a Randolph high social standing. Thomas Jefferson studied at College of William and Mary then read law. In 1772 Thomas Jefferson married Martha Wayles Skelton widow and took her to live in Thomas Jefferson partly constructed mountaintop home Monticello. Freckled and sandy-haired rather tall and awkward Jefferson was eloquent as correspondent but Thomas Jefferson was no public speaker. In Virginia House of Burgesses and Continental Congress Thomas Jefferson contributed Thomas Jefferson pen rather than Thomas Jefferson voice to patriot cause. As "silent member" of Congress Jefferson at 33 drafted Declaration of Independence. In years following Thomas Jefferson labored to make its words reality in Virginia. Most notably Thomas Jefferson wrote bill establishing religious freedom enacted in 1786. Jefferson succeeded Benjamin Franklin as minister to France in 1785. Thomas Jeffersonsympathy for French Revolution led Thomas Jefferson into conflict with Alexander Hamilton when Jefferson was Secretary of State in President Washington's Cabinet. Thomas Jefferson resigned in 1793. Sharp political conflict developed and two separate parties Federalists and Democratic-Republicans began to form. Jefferson gradually assumed leadership of Republicans who sympathized with revolutionary cause in France. Attacking Federalist policies Thomas Jefferson opposed strong centralized Government and championed rights of states. As reluctant candidate for President in 1796 Jefferson came within three votes of election. Through flaw in Constitution Thomas Jefferson became Vice President although opponent of President Adams. In 1800 defect caused more serious problem. Republican electors attempting to name both President and a Vice President from their own party cast a tie vote between Jefferson and Aaron Burr. The House of Representatives settled tie. Hamilton disliking both Jefferson and Burr nevertheless urged Jefferson's election. When Jefferson assumed Presidency crisis in France had passed. Thomas Jefferson slashed Army and Navy expenditures cut budget eliminated tax on whiskey so unpopular in West yet reduced national debt by third. Thomas Jefferson also sent naval squadron to fight Barbary pirates who were harassing American commerce in Mediterranean. Further although Constitution made no provision for acquisition of new land Jefferson suppressed Thomas Jefferson qualms over constitutionality when Thomas Jefferson had opportunity to acquire Louisiana Territory from Napoleon in 1803. During Jefferson's second term Thomas Jefferson was increasingly preoccupied with keeping Nation from involvement in Napoleonic wars though both England and France interfered with neutral rights of American merchantmen. Jefferson's attempted solution embargo upon American shipping worked badly and was unpopular. Jefferson retired to Monticello to ponder such projects as Thomas Jefferson grand designs for University of Virginia. A French nobleman observed that Thomas Jefferson had placed Thomas Jefferson house and Thomas Jefferson mind "on elevated situation from which Thomas Jefferson might contemplate universe. "

Thomas Jefferson died on July 4 1826. 